[normal_hearing]
There are three types of hearing loss that can impact an individual:
Conductive, Sensorineural, and Mixed Hearing Loss.
[normal_hearing]
Conductive Hearing Loss can be caused by
damage to the outer or middle ear.
[normal_hearing]
This type of hearing loss is usually moderate
and never severe or profound.
[normal_hearing]
It is also usually temporary, and can be fixed.
The second type of hearing loss is Sensorineural.
[normal_hearing]
Sensorineural hearing loss is caused by
damage to the inner ear.
[normal_hearing]
This loss is caused by damage to the cochlea
and hair cells of the inner ear, or cilia.
[normal_hearing]
A sensorineural loss can also be caused by damage to the
auditory nerve. The third and final type of hearing loss
[normal_hearing]
is mixed hearing loss. This is when the loss is both
conductive and sensorineural, so there is damage to both
[normal_hearing]
the outer, or middle, and inner ear.
With normal hearing, if a person can hear sounds
[normal_hearing]
above 30 decibels, they’re within normal limits.
One morning, Uncle Sam was fishing in a nearby river.
[normal_hearing]
Suddenly, he felt something at the end
of the fishing rod. When he pulled it out of the water,
[normal_hearing]
he saw a big fish.
With mild hearing loss, a person begins to hear sounds
[normal_hearing]
from 30 to 40 decibels. People with mild
hearing loss may not even realize they have a hearing loss,
[normal_hearing]
and usually will not do anything about it.
[mild_loss]
One morning, Uncle Sam was fishing in a nearby river.
Suddenly, he felt something at the end of
[mild_loss]
the fishing rod. When he pulled it out of the water,
he saw a big fish.
[normal_hearing]
With moderate hearing loss, a person begins to hear sounds
from 40 to 60 decibels.
[normal_hearing]
You can hear some speech sounds like
/ng/ or /d/ but lose the ability to hear higher
[normal_hearing]
frequency speech sounds like /f/ or /s/.
This group benefits from hearing aids.
[moderate_loss]
One morning, Uncle Sam was fishing in a nearby river.
Suddenly, he felt something at the end of
[moderate_loss]
the fishing rod. When he pulled it out of the water,
he saw a big fish.
[normal_hearing]
Severe hearing loss occurs when a patient is
unable to hear sounds less than 60 to 90 decibels.
[normal_hearing]
An example of a sound they can hear
is a lawnmower. This level of hearing loss benefits
[normal_hearing]
from a hearing aid or cochlear implant, as speech
sounds will be completely unavailable otherwise.
[severe_loss]
One morning, Uncle Sam was fishing in a nearby river.
Suddenly, he felt something at the end of
[severe_loss]
the fishing rod. When he pulled it out of the water,
he saw a big fish.
[normal_hearing]
With a profound hearing loss, a person can
only hear sounds above 90 decibels.
[normal_hearing]
An individual can’t hear any speech sounds
and may only be able to hear loud sounds,
[normal_hearing]
like a chainsaw. A hearing aid would be beneficial
and restore some sounds, but not all speech sounds.
[normal_hearing]
A cochlear implant could also be beneficial for those
who have severe or profound hearing loss to help restore
[normal_hearing]
sounds if hearing aids don’t work.
[profound_loss]
One morning, Uncle Sam was fishing in a nearby river.
Suddenly, he felt something at the end of
[profound_loss]
the fishing rod. When he pulled it out of the water,
he saw a big fish.